Instructor: Let's look
at some Boolean expressions
in EarSketch now.
I've defined a few variables
in my script
for some common things
we might use
in an EarSketch script,
like a starting measure.
I assigned 1 to startMeasure.
I assigned measure 9
to endMeasure.
I assigned a sound
to a sound variable
and I assigned a track
to the track variable.
So let's define
a Boolean variable now
and assign it
Boolean expression
"endMeasure > 10."
Then let me print out
the value of "a" to my console
so that I can see
whether it's true or false.
So in evaluating
endMeasure > 10,
we look at what the value
of endMeasure is.
And up here we assigned
endMeasure to be 9.
So here all I'm checking
is 9 > 10.
So is 9 > 10? No.
Therefore, this expression, "a,"
is assigned "false."
And you can see when I run this
it prints "false"
to the EarSketch console.
I can check instead,
endMeasure equal to 9.
So this is saying,
"Does 9 equal 9?"
And of course, 9 does equal 9.
So now when I run it,
I'll get a value
of "true" for "a."
We can check
all different kinds of things
with Boolean expressions.
I can check the value
of my sound—
I can say, "Is 'sound' not equal
to YO3_DRUMS_SAMPLE_1?"
And here that's basically saying
"Does YO3_DRUMS_SAMPLE_1
not equal YO3_DRUMS_SAMPLE_1?"
But is something not equal
itself?
Well that's going to be false
because of course something
does equal itself,
but I'm checking for not equal.
So when I run this
I get the value of "false."
I can also check things
with the track variable.
Is track > 1?
Well again the value
of track here is 7.
So is 7 > 1?
True, because 7 is > 1.
I can also build up
compound expressions here
using "and" and "or."
So is track > 1
and track < 5?
Well is 7 > 1 and 7 < 5?
We know 7 is > 1,
so that part is true,
but 7 is not < 5,
so that's false.
And "true and false"
always gives us "false."
So the value of a
is now "false."
If I change this, though,
to an "or," is track > 1
or track < 5?
Is 7 > 1 or is 7 < 5?
True or false.
Well the value
of "true or false"
is always "true,"
because at least one of them
is true.
So when I run that,
I get a value of "true."